Vlookup

e process:
Step-by-Step Guide:
Step 1: Prepare your Excel Sheets
•	Sheet A: This sheet contains the list of IDs you want to check.
o	Assume your ID column is labeled ID in Sheet A (let's say it's in column A).
•	Sheet B: This sheet contains the IDs along with names.
o	Assume your ID column in Sheet B is also labeled ID (let's say it's in column A).
o	The name column is in column B.
Step 2: Using VLOOKUP to Check ID Existence in Sheet B
You need to check whether each ID in Sheet A exists in Sheet B. To do this, you can use VLOOKUP in Excel.
1.	Go to Sheet A.
2.	In an empty column (let's say column C), type the following formula to check if each ID from Sheet A exists in Sheet B:
excel
Copy code
=IF(ISNA(VLOOKUP(A2, B!A:A, 1, FALSE)), "Not Found", "Found")
Explanation:
o	A2: The cell in Sheet A that contains the ID you want to check.
o	B!A:A: The range to search in Sheet B (column A in Sheet B where IDs are located).
o	1: This refers to the column number in the range to return the value (column 1 in this case, as it’s the ID column in Sheet B).
o	FALSE: This ensures that you are looking for an exact match.
o	The IF(ISNA(...)) will return "Not Found" if the ID doesn't exist in Sheet B and "Found" if it does.
3.	Drag this formula down to apply it to all rows in column C for all IDs in Sheet A.
Step 3: Check the Name for "test"
Next, you want to verify if the corresponding name column in Sheet B is equal to "test", for those IDs that are found.
1.	In another empty column (let's say column D), enter this formula to check if the name corresponding to each found ID is "test":
excel
Copy code
=IF(C2="Found", IF(VLOOKUP(A2, B!A:B, 2, FALSE)="test", "Test Found", "Test Not Found"), "ID Not Found")
Explanation:
o	C2="Found": Checks if the ID in Sheet A was found in Sheet B (from the previous column).
o	VLOOKUP(A2, B!A:B, 2, FALSE): Looks up the ID in column A of Sheet B and returns the corresponding name from column B.
o	"test": Checks if the name is equal to "test".
o	The formula returns:
	"Test Found" if the name is "test."
	"Test Not Found" if the name isn't "test."
	"ID Not Found" if the ID from Sheet A isn't found in Sheet B.
2.	Drag this formula down to apply it to all rows in column D.
Step 4: Review Results
•	Column C will indicate whether the ID from Sheet A was found in Sheet B.
•	Column D will show whether the corresponding name is "test" or not.
Step 5: Additional Actions (Optional)
If you want to filter or take action based on the results, you can:
•	Filter the values in column D to only show "Test Found", "Test Not Found", or "ID Not Found".
•	Use conditional formatting to highlight the rows where the name is "test" or where the ID is not found.
Example:
Sheet A (ID)	Found in B (Column C)	Test Check (Column D)
101	Found	Test Found
102	Found	Test Not Found
103	Not Found	ID Not Found
Summary:
1.	Use VLOOKUP to check if each ID in Sheet A exists in Sheet B.
2.	Then, use another VLOOKUP to check the corresponding name if the ID is found.
3.	Combine the results to show whether the ID is found and whether the name is "test."
Let me know if you need any further assistance!

